h1. Zend Framework 1.x Push Notifications

This project makes usage of libraries from Zend Framework for a few different
areas:
* C2dm Authentication - Zend_Gdata_ClientLogin
* C2dm Exceptions - Zend_Filter_Alpha
* C2dm & Mpns HTTP - Zend_Http_Client
* Mpns Id Validation - Zend_Uri

h2. Use Cases

h3. Sending a Message with APNS

bc.. <?php

require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Apns.php';
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Message/Apns.php';

$apns = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Apns();
$apns->setCertificate(dirname(__FILE__) . '/mycert.pem'); // REPLACE WITH YOUR CERT
 
$message = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Message_Apns();
$message->setToken('some-type-of-token'); // REPLACE WITH A APNS TOKEN
$message->setId(time());
$message->setAlert('This is a test message!');
$message->setBadge(1);
$message->setSound('somesound');
$apns->send($message);

h3. Getting Feedback from APNS

bc.. <?php
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Apns.php';
 
$apns = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Apns();
$apns->setCertificate(dirname(__FILE__) . '/mycert.pem'); // REPLACE WITH YOUR CERT
print_r($apns->feedback()); // array of items

h3. Sending a Message with C2DM

bc.. <?php

require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/C2dm.php';
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Message/C2dm.php';
require_once 'Zend/Gdata/ClientLogin.php';
 
try {
    $client = Zend_Gdata_ClientLogin::getHttpClient(
        'my@gmail.com', // REPLACE WITH YOUR GOOGLE ACCOUNT
        'myPassword', // REPLACE WITH YOUR PASSWORD
        Zend_Mobile_Push_C2dm::AUTH_SERVICE_NAME,
        null,
        'myAppName' // REPLACE WITH YOUR APP NAME
    );
} catch (Zend_Gdata_App_CaptchaRequiredException $cre) {
    // manual login is required
    echo 'URL of CAPTCHA image: ' . $cre->getCaptchaUrl() . PHP_EOL;
    echo 'Token ID: ' . $cre->getCaptchaToken() . PHP_EOL;
    exit(1);
} catch (Zend_Gdata_App_AuthException $ae) {
    echo 'Problem authenticating: ' . $ae->exception() . PHP_EOL;
    exit(1);
}
 
$c2dm = new Zend_Mobile_Push_C2dm();
$c2dm->setLoginToken($client->getClientLoginToken());
 
$message = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Message_C2dm();
$message->setToken('a-device-token'); // REPLACE WITH A DEVICE TOKEN
$message->setId('testCollapseKey');
$message->setData(array(
    'title' => 'Test Notification',
    'msg' => 'This is a test notification.'
));
try {
    $c2dm->send($message);
} catch (Zend_Mobile_Push_Exception_InvalidToken $e) {
    // do not attempt to send again
} catch (Zend_Mobile_Push_Exception_DeviceQuotaExceeded $e) {
    // retry later, likely each hour.
} catch (Zend_Mobile_Push_Exception_ServerUnavailable $e) {
    // retry later using exponential backoff
} catch (Zend_Mobile_Push_Exception $e) {
    // all of these are fatal in nature, log and figure out what you did ;)
}

h3. Sending a Raw Message with MPNS

bc.. <?php
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Mpns.php';
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Message/Mpns/Raw.php';
 
$mpns = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Mpns();
 
$message = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Message_Mpns_Raw();
$message->setToken('http://sn1.notify.live.net/throttledthirdparty/01.00/THETOKEN'); // REPLACE WITH NOTIFICATION URI FROM MPNS
$message->setMessage('<root><value attr="stuff" /></root>');
$mpns->send($message);

h3. Sending a Toast Message with MPNS

bc.. <?php
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Mpns.php';
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Message/Mpns/Toast.php';
 
$mpns = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Mpns();
 
$message = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Message_Mpns_Toast();
$message->setToken('http://sn1.notify.live.net/throttledthirdparty/01.00/THETOKEN'); // REPLACE WITH NOTIFICATION URI FROM MPNS
$message->setTitle('Test Notification');
$message->setMessage('This is a test notification');

// optional attributes for wp7.1+
$message->setParams('?value=12345');
$mpns->send($message);

h3. Sending a Tile Message with MPNS

bc.. <?php
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Mpns.php';
require_once 'Zend/Mobile/Push/Message/Mpns/Toast.php';
 
$mpns = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Mpns();
 
$message = new Zend_Mobile_Push_Message_Mpns_Tile();
$message->setToken('http://sn1.notify.live.net/throttledthirdparty/01.00/THETOKEN'); // REPLACE WITH NOTIFICATION URI FROM MPNS
$message->setBackgroundImage('red.jpg');
$message->setCount(1);
$message->setTitle('Wowzah!');

// other optional attributes for wp7.1+
$message->setTileId('/SomeAction.xaml');
$message->setBackBackgroundImage('blue.jpg');
$message->setBackTitle('Woaaa!');
$message->setBackContent('dude');
$mpns->send($message);

h2. ZF Proposal

ZF Proposal Page: "Zend_Mobile_Push - Mike Willbanks":http://framework.zend.com/wiki/display/ZFPROP/Zend_Mobile_Push+-+Mike+Willbanks
